>> Richard Feldman: Okay, so let's look at
a couple of examples of opaque types in
practice and
the guarantees they can give us.
So this is one from
rtfeldman/elm-validate.
This is a form Validation library.
And it's got this module
called Validate and
it exposes two values that we care
about for the purposes of this example.
One is called Validator,
the other is called Valid.
So Validator essentially describe
some validation that is going to
perform on some piece of the data.
So you might say, for example,
I've got a Validator for my form type and
it's going to validate that there's field
called user name which is not blank.
There's an email address field that's got
an at symbol in it, and maybe there is
password which matches the confirm
password field, something like that.
The type Valid, I'm gonna show you
the implementation detail of it,
is extremely boring.
It's not quite as bad as the email
one we saw in the previous slide, but
it's extremely, extremely boring.
It's type Valid a = Valid a.
So in other words,
it's just a wrapper around whatever.
It's a wrapper that adds
no additional information.
All it does is wrap
the thing that you give it.
However, it turns out it's actually got
a [LAUGH] surprisingly useful purpose.
So we also expose a function called
fromValid, which means if you give me
a valid thing, I will just give you
back the thing inside of itself,
sort of unwrap it, and
give it back to you.
Which again would be
pretty boring except for
there is only one way to get
one of these valid values.
So notice that we have not exposed
the valid variance, just the type itself.
So it is okay to other modules.
And the only way to get one is by
calling this function called Validate.
So Validate takes a Validator which
you've constructed elsewhere.
So Validator has two type parameters,
one is the error type so
you can give it a custom error type
if you want, and then the subject.
Then it takes the subject, and
it returns a result with either a list
of errors if the validation failed.
In which case it says hey,
here are all the things that went wrong.
Or it gives you back
the subject wrapped in a Valid.
So this is the only way to obtain one of
these Valid wrappers is to call Validate
passing whatever your
particular subject is.
Once you've got one of those
you can unwrap it, but
the only way to get one in the first
place is to call Validate.
Why might that be useful?
Well, imagine we wanted to
write a function like this.
SubmitForm takes a valid form and
returns an HTTP request that
ends up giving you a user.
So this might be a sign-up form or
something like that.
So what's cool about this is if I write
this type, I know that the only way
that I'm going to be able to submit
the form is if it's been validated first.
So this tiny simple,
unremarkable wrapper that has
essentially no logic inside of it,
just by virtue of its existing
guarantees that I can't forget to
validate my form before submitting it.
That has to happen.
So the submit form function just by adding
the six characters on the front it gives
us guarantee that it's no longer possible
to forget to take care of form validation.
So essentially the whole purpose
of this type is only to be opaque.
If this type were not opaque, then that
guarantee would go out the window.
I could no longer add this to my form and
say, yes,
this ensures that I
remember to validate it.
Because it's entirely possible that
somewhere in my code I just said,
[SOUND] forget it,
I'll instantiate this thing.
Or maybe somebody who is new to the team
and didn't realize what it was supposed to
be marking said I don't know how
I'm supposed to get a Valid Form.
I'll just go ahead and
construct one cuz that thing's in scope.
If somebody new to the team
did try to do that,
they would find that it wouldn't compile
just like our email example from earlier.
They'd go hunting through
the documentation.
Eventually they would say,
the only way I can actually get one of
these is I have to call Validate, etc.
So this is going to be the first in a long
series of examples of things of the form.
It's better to make it so that it won't
compile if you don't remember to do
the thing than it is to document hey,
everyone, please do the thing and
everyone always remember
that perfectly forever.
Nice thing about the compiler
is it always remembers.